### Stop Donating to the ACLU

On Friday, March 22nd four members of the ACLU were laid off suddenly (and the entire editorial team disbanded) with no regard for the immediate and dire consequences for their colleagues they worked with on a daily basis on incredibly sensitive issues nor the impacted communities those employees had painstakingly built relationships with. Many staff members commented that the restructure and layoffs will undoubtably have immediate negative impact on the organization's racial justice work given how integral some of the separated staff members were to that work. Each was a member of a protected class and told that their role was redundant though after a staff meeting today employees, from across the organization made it known to leadership that these colleagues are integral to the work and purported goals of the organization. The organization continues to fail particularly people of color and LGBTQIA staff and our communities. Do not put your trust and money into an organization that demands so much from marginalized people only to cast them out with almost no notice. The Chief People Officer claimed at the March 27th leadership meeting offering “enhanced severance” in exchange for signing a one-sided non-disparagement agreement was not coercive despite the challenges marginalized people have in securing employment.
***
The organization has made it known that its primary purpose is fundraising and not protecting marginalized communities or doing right by their employees. 

### Email from leadership sent Monday March 25th
#### ACLU Comms and Digital Reorganizations 

Dear Colleagues:
 
Over the past several months, members of the Senior Staff team have been engaged in discussions with staff, consultants, and each other about how to continue to improve our digital and communications functions.  We know that with more focus and resources, we can improve our online fundraising efforts. We must also build on the success of our advocacy work last year and continue to cultivate more activist supporters and inform and empower old and new voters in the run up to November 2020. We need to provide more support to the affiliates that depend on national for support with functions such as email production. We realize that we can align our cross-functional and cross-departmental work in a way that enhances collaboration, clarifies roles and responsibilities, and streamlines our processes in order to best deliver on our mission. These discussions have led us to a reorganization process, which we would like to share with you.
 
We are creating a new consolidated digital team that brings together our talented staff from several departments — Communications, Development and ASNI. This new digital team will comprise the many functions across the ACLU that create content for our digital channels — including the majority of the digital and editorial roles that were housed in Communications, the digital production roles that were housed in Affiliate Support and Nationwide Initiatives, as well as the online fundraising roles that were housed in Development. Organizer and campaigner roles that involve digital work will remain in NPAD, and our new digital team will work closely with NPAD leadership to ensure digital alignment.

The new digital program will focus primarily on engaging priority audiences for two mutually-reinforcing goals:  1) Increase nationwide online fundraising by informing, inspiring and asking people to invest in our work, and 2) Increase nationwide high-bar advocacy, including mobilizing people to invest their time offline as advocates, voters, and event attendees.
Our new digital team will join our PTEC team (led by our Chief Technology Officer **Redacted**) under the leadership of a new Chief Product & Digital Officer (CP&DO). Principal roles that touch our digital channels across communications, advocacy, fundraising and technology development will now be in one unified team. This will ensure that our online content and messages are aligned and that we are most effective in achieving our shared goals.

This newly consolidated department will live under the purview of **Redacted**, our Chief Operating Officer, to whom the CP&DO will directly report, but with close and collaborative reporting to our Chief Development Officer, Chief Communications Officer, National Political Director, and Director of Affiliate Support & Nationwide Initiatives. The Analytics team, led by our Chief Analytics Officer **Redacted**, will be a peer to the department led by our new CP&DO, supporting the CP&DO department's work in achieving its goals, as it does for all departments across the organization.

We are excited to announce that **Redacted**, who has been serving as Special Advisor to PTEC, will be taking on the role of Chief Product & Digital Officer to lead this ambitious effort. We have enormous confidence in **Redacted** ability to engage our staff and leadership deeply and to lead the teams that will deliver on our institutional goals and priorities. She brings an exceptionally unique set of qualifications that span technical and digital subject matter expertise, organizational leadership and management, digital fundraising and advocacy, and experience working in a variety of charitable, social, political, and nonprofit environments.

**Redacted** will devote the month of April and early May to hear from her new team and develop a proposed organizational structure. She will engage every member of this team and PTEC to inform her recommendations. She will deliver the proposed organizational structure to the Senior Staff and for Anthony’s approval, after which the Chief People Officer and HR will help implement. There are a series of retreats planned for the new digital team and PTEC to meet and begin the work of building our new consolidated digital and product department.
 
Concurrently, Chief Communications Officer **Redacted** has decided to reorganize the Communications department, based on feedback she received through team interviews and meetings with every member of the Communications department over the past several months. The Communications department will now be a more streamlined team, combining 1) strategic communications, 2) brand strategy, arts/entertainment and events, and 3) special projects. The new Communications team will be focused on delivering a vision for strategy-based communications work focused more intentionally on our six organizational priority issues.  The new communications team will convene cross-organization working groups to develop and implement communications strategies for priority work with colleagues across the legal, political advocacy, fundraising and affiliate support departments, with a focus on organizational change and growth.

To help lead the newly aligned Communications department, **Redacted** has selected **Redacted** as the new Deputy Chief Communications Officer. **Redacted** and **Redacted** will be having conversations this week with leadership across the ACLU about these changes and available to answer any questions.

There will be uncertainty about how some of these needed changes will impact our people, and our work. Any time there is a reorganization with staffing changes, difficult choices have to be made. Unfortunately, we have eliminated some positions in the process of the organizational restructuring we are undergoing. This is always difficult, but we are optimistic that the new structure will help take the ACLU to new heights.

We are inventing and learning in a fast-paced, dynamic environment. We will strive to continually improve, refine and innovate to meet those challenges that build the right teams, structures and processes to ensure the ACLU remains the leading civil liberties and civil rights organization in the nation. We believe these changes position us to be stronger, sustainable and more capable to deliver meaningful change, now and in the future.
***
ACLU staff members voiced displeasure over the board policy on non-disparagement agreements that few employees seemed familiar with and asked that sample language be provided. Many staff also commented on the hypocrisy of the ACLU's public stance while also employing these agreements. Documentation from the staff handbook argues that these agreements might even be in the best interest of the employee though the organization's external comments would argue the opposite.

[Memorandum from ACLU National Board of Directors on Nondisparagement Clauses](https://github.com/nonstopinertia/nonstopinertia.github.io/blob/master/2014-04-15_SANC_Report_to_NB.pdf)
***
Got something to add: nonstopinertia@protonmail.com
